Demonstrate Achievement of Program Learning Goals:
The following details the preparation and assessment of the Project Portfolio for the MS in
Applied Data Science. The overall goal of the Project Portfolio is to demonstrate to a panel of
faculty experts that the student is able to:


Assessment of the Portfolio:
Faculty associated with the ADS program will perform the assessment of student portfolios. If a
given student's portfolio does not demonstrate that they have sufficiently met the learning
goals of the program, the student will be able to resubmit the portfolio with appropriate
changes. In this case, the portfolio would be reviewed again by the same faculty reviewers.
Submission Details:
Each student must submit all portfolio materials and documents in the blackboard and
provide a link to their project code in GitHub,Google or Dropbox, giving permission to view the
documents to the current faculty member overseeing the milestone: Professor Ying Lin,
ylin65@syr.edu. Organize your sub-folders/files as follows:
1. Overview document providing student identification (name, SUID number, email, etc.)
and table of contents of the folder.
2. The student's current professional resume.
3. Written paper that contains each learning goal of the program linked to the deliverables
the student created in courses that demonstrate achievement of that learning goal.

Reference will be made as to how the various assignment and project deliverables
additionally contributed to the student's preparation for work in their chosen specialty
area(s), 

how they demonstrate their present areas of strength and challenge, and how
the student intends to leverage their studies in a program of life-long learning in the field.

Works in progress will be appropriately assessed as well. 

The paper will include
references to key conceptual works in the field that shaped their learning throughout the
program and how that occurred. There is no length requirement for the paper; it needs to
be long enough to link all learning outcomes to the projects students have completed
during their program of study.


** learning outcomes ** 

• Collect, store, and access data by identifying and leveraging applicable technologies
• Create actionable insight across a range of contexts (e.g. societal, business, political),
using data and the full data science life cycle
• Apply visualization and predictive models to help generate actionable insight
• Use programming languages such as Rand Python to support the generation of
actionable insight
• Communicate insights gained via visualization and analytics to a broad range of
audiences (including project sponsors and technical team leads
• Apply ethics in the development, use and evaluation of data and predictive models (e.g.,
fairness, bias, transparency, privacy)


a. DUE DATE OF DRAFT: February 23th, 2025

he core of the
portfolio is a written analysis of learning in the form of a properly cited paper that links the
student's projects and assignments to key concepts in the field and justifies how the
student's deliverables have demonstrated their individual mastery of these concepts

